#title: 'Fake Quotes' Pandemic: Don't Always Believe What You Read
#ref: https://www.shanbay.com/news/articles/eoiai

#article content:
'Fake Quotes' Pandemic: Don't Always Believe What You Read
"我"没说过这话，不过确实在理

‘The secret of change is to focus all of your energy, not on fighting the old, but on building the new,’ said ‘Socrates’. 
Interestingly, however, this Socrates is not the renowned historical Greek philosopher that you thought about! Rather, this quote is from a fictional ‘Socrates’ from a 1980 American book, ‘Way of the Peaceful Warrior’! 
Is the Internet Making ‘Fake Quotes’ a ‘Pandemic’? 
‘Misquoting’ famous personalities have been there since ages but it has remarkably grown since the advent of the internet and social media. Fancy looking posters with an ‘eye-catching image’ with a ‘quotation’ written in an ‘attractive font’ are the perfect recipe to go viral. 
If the quote ends with the name of a famed personality, the audience becomes even more ‘generous’ in spreading the words of ‘wisdom’ and ‘inspiration’! However, not all of these ‘quotes’ are reliably attributed! 
How do these Fake Quotes Become Popular? 
Writing the name of a popular personality raises the ‘credibility’ of the quote. Since many of these personalities were from the ‘past’ (or even ‘ancient past’), it is generally difficult to ascertain what they actually wrote and said in comparison to what is being attributed towards them. 
Furthermore, many of them spoke languages that are different in which they are being quoted. 
This makes it even more difficult to trace the original sources (sources are rarely mentioned with most such ‘quotations’ anyways) considering the fact that the ‘translations’ could have paraphrased the original sayings, sometimes at the expense of ‘accuracy’! 
Speaking about why people frequently misquote the late American poet, Maya Angelou, Rebecca Seales articulates this phenomenon in these words: 
“Basically, it’s because the lines she did write were so good. Her quotability makes her a magnet for misattribution.” Got a sage, compassionate line with no recorded owner? Just say it was Maya, the logic runs. 
Unless it’s too spiritual, in which case try Mother Theresa. Or too girlish – then there’s Marilyn Monroe; or too spiky when the obvious candidates are Oscar Wilde or Mark Twain. All eminently quotable men and women – and too dead to disclaim the words they never said. 
Words that sound nice, graphics that look nice and a name that strikes memories are enough for a fake quote to travel far and wide! 
